## Setup Git Repository (AWS CodeCommit)

Setup a CodeCommit repository in your local machine

In order to use your client's CodeCommit repository you need to do the following:

1. Setup AWS Credentials (By You)
2. Setup Git username and password (By You)
3. Know how to switch between multiple clients (By You)

### Prerequisites

1. AWS CLI v2 or later in your local machine _(By You)_
   https://aws.amazon.com/cli/
2. IAM User with following privilege _(From Client)_
   - AWSCodeCommitPowerUser
3. IAM User AWS*ACCESS_KEY_ID *(e.g. AKIA**\*\*\*\***)\_ _(From Client)_
4. IAM User AWS*SECRET_ACCESS_KEY *(e.g Yk****\*****PW9)\_ _(From Client)_
5. AWS Region _(From Client)_

### Procedure

#### Step 1: Create a named profile (By You)

It is required if you are using the IAM user for the first time in your local machine

Run the following command in your terminal / cmd:

```bash
$ aws configure --profile <client-name>
AWS Access Key ID [None]: AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
AWS Secret Access Key [None]: wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
Default region name [None]: us-west-2
```

Additionally, you can use the below commands for troubleshooting problems with

- To list all configuration data, use the `aws configure list` command. This command displays the AWS CLI name of all settings you've configured, their values, and where the configuration was retrieved from.

- To list all your profile names, use the `aws configure list-profiles` command.

  ```bash
  $ aws configure list-profiles
  default
  test
  ```

#### Step 2: Setup Local Git Username and Password (By You)

You have to add your developer nickname to the local repository. Otherwise the git won't include your name and email in the commit history

Run this command to add your info to local git

```bash
$ git config user.name "Your Nickname Here"
$ git config user.email your_nickname@email.com
```

#### Step 3: Switch between multiple clients

When you want to work in multiple projects from multiple clients, you would need to know how to switch between multiple profiles in AWS. Otherwise git commands such as `git push` or `git pull` won't work since the credentials won't match.

To set a AWS profile set `AWS_PROFILE` environment variable before running any git command:

**Linux or macOS**

```bash
$ export AWS_PROFILE=client1
$ git ...
```

> If you still getting unauthorized error in MacOS. It could be because of the token getting cached by Apple Keychain. You can open KeyChain program and search and delete any CodeCommit credential

**Windows**

```powershell
C:\> setx AWS_PROFILE client1
C:\> git ...
```
